feat(operator): expose KeptnMetrics as OTel metrics (#684)
keptn/lifecycle-toolkit: docs/content/en/docs/concepts/metrics/_index.md

---
title: Metrics
description: Learn what Keptn Metrics are and how to use them
icon: concepts
layout: quickstart
weight: 10
hidechildren: true # this flag hides all sub-pages in the sidebar-multicard.html
---

### Keptn Metric

> A `KeptnMetric` is a CRD used to define SLI provider with a query and to store metric data fetched from the provider. Providing the metrics as CRD into a K8s cluster will facilitate the reusability of this data across multiple components. Furthermore, this allows using multiple observability platforms for different metrics.

Reviewer: I would rephrase the first part as:  ... is a CRD representing a metric. The metric will be collected from the provider specified in the specs.provider.name field. The query is a string containing provider specific query to obtain a metric. MAybe prometheus example also.

Author: real example is in readme, the other things I agree, can you make a suggestion what exactly you meant to change ?

Reviewer: no I ment with a proper prometheus query in it

Author: ok we can add a query there, but maybe I will add it rather to readme than here

> A `KeptnMetric` is a CRD used to define SLI provider with a query and to store metric data fetched from the provider. Providing the metrics as CRD into a K8s cluster will facilitate the reusability of this data across multiple components. Furthermore, this allows using multiple observability platforms for different metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A `KeptnMetric` is a CRD representing a metric. The metric will be collected from the provider specified in the specs.provider.name field. The query is a string in the provider-specific query language, used to obtain a metric. Providing the metrics as CRD into a K8s cluster will facilitate the reusability of this data across multiple components. Furthermore, this allows using multiple observability platforms for different metrics.
```

A `KeptnMetric` looks like the following:

```yaml
apiVersion: metrics.keptn.sh/v1alpha1
kind: KeptnMetric
metadata:
  name: keptnmetric-sample

>   namespace: keptn-lifecycle-toolkit-system

Reviewer 2: should we also add a note about the requirement of metrics being applied only in the `keptn-lifecycle-toolkit-system` namespace here as well?
